We all know we can do the binary search on a sorted array

Now if we think, why it works on a sorted array is because the array is monotonically arranged

that is, we get either increasing or decreasing elements

So for a monotonic function can also be binary search

that is if a function is either increasing or decreasing in some sense, we can apply binary search

Also, if there is an answer servies where if the answer is eithe true or false after a particular answer value, we 
can condider using the binary search algo.
Finish this playlist: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_NT69eLpqks&list=PLgUwDviBIf0pMFMWuuvDNMAkoQFi-h0ZF&index=1

Ex: 

Squart - Find the square root of a number
        We can iterate number from 1 to n/2 and chech if i*i = n
        We can also, see that as i increases, the i * i also increases
        so, i * i is a monotonic function and also, the ans we are looking for it also increasing 

Painter partition - You have to paint N boards of certain lengths and K painters. Each will take T time.
        - Now how can we find a monotonic relation to this problem ?
        - One thing is, if the ans is increasing, i.e the time.
        - So given a time, I can validate if its possible for the problem constaints
        - IF not I can increase or reduce the time and keep validating until I reah the answer
        - So, the clue here is a monotonically increasing ans and a way to validate it at every step



Allocate books: N number of books are given. 
                The ith book has Pi number of pages. 
                You have to allocate books to M number of students so that maximum number of pages 
                alloted to a student is minimum. A book will be allocated to exactly one student. 
                Each student has to be allocated at least one book. 
                Allotment should be in contiguous order, for example: 
                A student cannot be allocated book 1 and book 3, skipping book 2.

                - So the clue here is minimum value, is either increasing or decreasing 
                - And we can validate it at each point
